Prime Minister Justin Trudeau's Speech at the Vaisakhi Celebration on the Parliament Hill
Youtube: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e3mkQ2pXGoo
April 11, 2016
waheguruji ka khalsa waheguruji ki fateh.
thank you all thank you to all of the Sangha for being here today I want to especially thank Minister chugger for her kind introduction and thanks also to everyone who is involved with bringing us all here together. I know there was a lot of work done and it's wonderful to see so many people come together here, in particular I'd like to thank darshan Khan for lending out his office for the akan baht and to the ottawa sikh society for all their support and thanks to dr. hardcore for her fantastic singing, and before that rep in der core and our
own unj√∫ Dylan this room was once known
as the reading room but perhaps the
singing room would be more appropriate
for now thank you for sharing your
talents with us today across our country
at Nagar curtains and in good warez we
will see hundreds of thousands of
Canadians Silla celebrating the creation
of Khalsa in 1699 by Shri Guru Gobind
Singh ji when we reflect on the creation
of culture we think of the call that
Guru Gobind Singh ji made for five brave
volunteers to be inducted into the
Khalsa what Guru Gobind Singh ji had in
mind was a society based on equality
those five individuals came from
different religions castes and
professions law scope also Canada same
impressive sapling legality senator
objective check Canadian / report kill a
duel via mere attentions really key
table did you see and that is as it
should be in a country as welcoming and
diverse as Canada is a country strong
not in spite of our differences but
because of them unfortunately as we all
know Canada hasn't always lived up to
that ideal this year will mark the 100
second anniversary of the Komagata Maru
incident we're 376 passengers of milk
mostly Sikh descent arrived in Vancouver
and were refused entry to Canada due to
the discriminatory laws of the time the
passengers of the Komagata Maru like
millions of immigrants to Canada since
were seeking refuge and a better lives
for their families with so much to
contribute to their new canoe home they
chose Canada and we failed them utterly
as a nation we should never forget the
prejudice suffered by the Sikh community
at the hands of the Canadian government
of the day we should not and we will not
that is why next month on May 18th I
will stand in the House of Commons and
offer a full apology for the Komagata
Maru
an apology made in the House of Commons
will not erase the pain and suffering of
those who lived through that shameful
experience but an apology is not only
the appropriate action to take it's the
right action to take and the house is
the appropriate place for it to happen
it was in the House of Commons that the
laws that prevented the passengers for
disembarking were first passed and so it
is fitting that the government should
apologize there on behalf of all
Canadians
it's what the victims of the Komagata
Maru incident deserve and we owe them
nothing less just as we look back and
acknowledge where we have failed so too
do we need to celebrate the remarkable
success of the Sikh community here in
Canada and vaisakhi is the perfect
opportunity to do just that
April is a special month not only for
Sikhs but for all Canadians it marks the
anniversary of the adoption of the
Charter of Rights and Freedoms
which ensures that no Canadian needs to
make the choice between their religion
and activities in their day-to-day lives
the Charter ensures that the five K's
are protected as Canadian Sikhs gather
with their loved ones to mark the
creation of the kalfa it is a chance to
reflect on shared values and celebrate
the successes of the past year I know
that these values a dedication to
community service and to the principles
of equality inclusion and respect serve
as inspiration to all Canadians
Sikhism values a commitment to honest
hard work and volunteerism while
ensuring equality for all the son got
here knows the value of hard work and
understands the sacrifices that have
been made so that future generations may
have greater opportunities the Sikh
community in Canada is more than a
hundred years strong and its member
have always excelled in every field and
sector in so many ways this community is
key to Canada's own economic and social
success that I know this past year has
been a really remarkable one for
Canadian Sikhs particularly in the
political realm my friends I am so
incredibly proud to serve in a
parliament that has 17 Sikh members each
is an exceptional individual but there's
one part of Harjit Sajjan story that i
think is particularly interesting to
share on this day between 2011 and 2014
he was the commanding officer of duke of
connaught s-- own the same british
columbia regiment that once forced out
the Komagata Maru a century ago
harge it's family might well have been
turned away from Canada and today he is
one of four members who now sit with me
in cabinet as you may know with the
record number of Sikh MPs elected last
October when job' became the third most
common language in the House of Commons
after English and French
now I can't claim to speak the houses
third language as well as I do its first
two but on this occasion I am deeply
honored to be able to say again waha
guru ji ka khalsa waheguru ji ki Fateh
you
