Canadian PM Stephen Harper addresses the crowd at the grand opening of the new Shul Sanctuary of Chabad at Flamingo in Thornhill Ontario
March 26, 2009
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HWmu2bHjSA4
thank you very much thank you very much
ladies and gentlemen good evening that's
just a tremendously warm welcome several
tremendous warm welcomes I tell you I I
I almost feel I should quit while I'm
ahead up here I do want to begin though
by thanking you remember a parliament
for that introduction and for his
presence tonight as all of you know few
very few people in this country let
alone in the Parliament of Canada have a
resume as impressive as Peters he is an
award-winning broadcast journalist with
more than 40 years experience he's
covered such momentous events as the Yom
Kippur War and the fall of apartheid in
his role as Minister of State for
Foreign Affairs he is putting this
wealth of experience and knowledge to
work for our government and indeed for
all of Canada of course including this
great constituency so let's give him
once again all
and Rabbi Kaplan
he's a tough act to follow
I really feel under pressure now I have
to tell you I have I have I have had 30
minutes on CBC but all the talking is
done by Mansbridge I have to tell you
another story it's it it's got nothing
to do with anything I have to say but it
I've thought of it because of Rabbi by
the way I'd hate to see rabbi cathlin
when he isn't speechless but rabbi
Kaplan made me think of this story it's
an old political story because of his
comment about his 45-minute sermon and
it's experience that whittling it down
and it's a story some of you may heard
it's an old political story about a
young man who goes out onto the Prairie
stumping putting up posters and stumping
for the beginning of his political
career I went through this phase in my
life in the late 1980s anyway he goes to
a small town where he's put up a bunch
of posters advertised the public meeting
to talk about the policies behind his
candidacy so he gets to the hall he
comes in he gets to the front he waits
for a few minutes past time looks and
finally realizes that the only person
who's come as this one farmer who's
showing up to his event was one farmer
so he gets up he comes to the podium and
he says I'm sorry sir but the do to
tonight's attendance I'm gonna have to
call off my speech for the evening well
the old farmer gets up and he says son
as you know I have a lot of cattle
horses and I feed my livestock every day
and I put a big feed out for them and if
only one of the cows shows up I still
feed them
so the the young guy gets the message
and he proceeds to launch into his long
45-minute explanation of all his
policies in his vision and his
differences with his opponents when he's
done he stops and he says well sir what
do you think of that well son and I put
out all this feed one cow shows up I
don't feed him the whole load
honored rabbis distinguished members of
the Jewish community distinguished
guests Madam's name is see us on TV
ladies and gentlemen boys and girls
tonight we celebrate the culmination of
a long journey the journey as you know
that began more than 20 years ago when
rabbi Zalman grosse bomb first shared
his vision of creating a place where all
Jews could gather to celebrate the faith
the commitment to community and the love
of learning that lays at the core of
Judaism together with businessman and
philanthropist Ernest Manson rabbi gross
bond crafted plans for a community
synagogue center to be constructed here
in Thornhill sadly Ernest Manson as we
know did not live to see their dream
come to fruition but the newly expanded
complex we are inaugurating today bears
his name as a tribute to his dedication
to this cause the Santa Lubavitch
earnest-money canoes in Yokohama Florrie
set out in black torn our spirit read
educativa Scioscia but a community if
the Thornhill the Ernest Manning
Lubavitch Center will serve as a
spiritual education educational and
social hub for this community and of
course a tribute to this great
benefactor
of course thanks to the vision and
leadership of the late rabbi Schneerson
thousands of Hvar Lubavitch centers like
this have opened their doors around the
world for education and outreach
programs these centers are strengthening
the bonds of the faith within the Jewish
community everywhere in so doing they
signify the enduring spirit of the
Jewish people
three thousand three hundred and twenty
years three thousand three hundred
twenty years among all the peoples of
the world perhaps none have been tried
as often and as greatly and certainly
not and have persevered as resolutely
and as successfully as the Jewish people
sadly his perseverance is once again
being tested by and I say this with deep
sadness a rising global tide of
anti-semitism as you know our government
has taken leadership in the moral
responsibility we all have to expose and
confront this malignant evil indeed all
forms of racial and religious hatred
wherever they occur but anti-semitism in
particular and I have to say this I've
said it before I say it again as I look
around at the dangers that confront us
in the world and II Semitism should be
confronted in its own right
or the moral evil that it is
what I say this not just the Jews but
the Gentiles everywhere it is important
to remember that history teaches us that
those who aim to destroy the Jewish
people to destroy the nation of Israel
that kind of spirit will not be quenched
by that objective they will be a threat
to us all and that is why they must be
at home
as you know we have several outstanding
leaders for this cause in our government
Jason Kenny I wrote the outstanding
Minister of immigration citizenship and
multiculturalism spoke forcefully of the
need to combat anti-semitism in all its
forms at the recent international
conference in London and of course
closer to home minister Kent has
vigorously denounced the anti-semitic
bullying tactics present on some
university campuses
but the bottom line is this whether at
home or abroad I hope and I know you can
have not a shadow of a doubt that my
government will remain a vehement
opponent of anti-semitism and unyielding
defender of religious freedom and a
staunch ally of the State of Israel
in closing I'd like to thank about the
bhavish for this kind invitation to this
historic dedication ceremony I wish you
all well in your service to the
community and I wish you well in your
efforts to spread the wisdom of the
Torah the wisdom of your faith god bless
you and your work
rabbi god bless all of you and your
efforts and of course Shalom God West
Canada
