Gordon Brown unveils a new statue of Nelson Mandela
today let me on behalf of all the people
of our country
welcome to Britain today the man who
will be remembered the man with no
prison cell no intimidation no violence
no show trauma no threat of execution
silence if the man has belief in the
future was so powerful that not even 27
years behind bars and barbed wire who
destroy his dream and his demand that by
fighting apartheid from his prison cell
millions today could be an athlete and
from this day forward and from this day
forward this statue will stand here in
size of this ancient forum of democracy
to commemorate and celebrate for the
ages
triumph in the greatest of causes he is
the most inspiring and greatest leader
of our generation
Nelson Mandela is one of the most
courageous and best loved men of all
time
he is the leader who became the
Liberator who always chose
reconciliation above revenge when he
left his country's prisons to become his
country's president led South Africa
away from a racial dictatorship and a
multi-racial democracy was born and when
people look back on this generation on
this man they will say whenever there
was oppression wherever there was
poverty whenever there was injustice and
wherever there was inequality Mandela
was fighting for the peoples of the
world by the lakes and by Richard
Attenborough is for us today and for
future generations more than just a
monument for only a street away from
where tens of thousands of people
demonstrated years ago for the release
of Nelson Mandela this statue is a
beacon of hope it sends around the world
the most powerful of messages but no
injustice and lasts forever
that's suffering in the cause of freedom
will never be in vain that no matter how
long the nights of oppression the
morning of Liberty will break through
and there is nothing that we the peoples
of the world working together fighting
with all of us the evil of global
poverty and let us welcome visit today
and leadership is courageous and
inspirational life Russia
Michelle game
and both these leaders are telling us
that by our common endeavors we can
abolish poverty and illiteracy in this
generation and we can become the first
generation in history to ensure every
child in the world has the rights to
education and schooling but by our
shared resolution we can be the first
generation in history to eradicate the
deadliest diseases of malaria diphtheria
tuberculosis polio and then together
attack the scourge of hiv/aids and if
what seemed the impassable pinnacle of
ending apartheid can be scaled in the
last century then in this century
inspired by Nelson Mandela we can make
poverty history and make this world than
you so I now invite him Wendy Richard to
unveil this statue today with me across
from Winston Churchill who led us in the
defeat against fascism near to every
Lincoln the great Emancipator will stand
Nelson Mandela the liberator of people
may Nelson Mandela's story and they is
statute son in US and future generations
to stand with him and to seek a world
worthy of what is best in our common
humanity President Mandela you will be
here with us always
you
